Streets as public plcaes:
keywords:-
Beyond open space
reflect diversity
New urban agenda:- Street vendors are vital elements of more equitable and exciting streets and public space.


p1: Urban spaces be more inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

criminalizes urban poor
2
2.1
Attributes of a good public space:-
Necessary, optional, social - all inclusive

2.2
Make streets safer
but they are subjected to large-scale eviction,displacement and  violence.

2.2.1 : Case study of Ahmedabad
1980s
universal:8-10 sq m per capita
ahmd:-1.1
Global south cities' vision has no space for city's urban poor
Green zone(residential area,<15m), Amber Zone(),
Affected 129 out of 174 natural markets
2014, street vendors Act 
AMC removed large no of vendors not complyig with the Act
Study in west zone

Streets as Publics Spaces: Lessons from Street Vending in Ahmedabad, India
The study is based in Ahmedabad City's West Zone, which is most diverse and minimizes any potential biases.
It has taken the contemporary street vending as reference which is often overlooked.
Urban spaces are desired to be more inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
SDGsshow commitment to protect these.
But often pressure groups, govt bodies, Municipal corporation and police criminalise urbAN POOR. They see them as a n obstacle to development.
Street vendors are essential elements in urban economy, provide food securities and make streets vibrant
They make streets safer,but they are subjected to large-scale eviction,displacement and  violence.
Study shows they some shop owners see them as customer drawers whereas some see them as competition.
In Ahmedabad,  decline in formal sector in 1980's resulted in boom in informal(street vending).
Standard universal public space per capita is 8-10 sq m, in ahmedabad it is 1.1 sq m.
Like any global south city's dream of becoming a world class city, Ahmedabad's vision has no space for city's urban poor.
It has one of the highest workplace insecurity in India.
The city public vendoring zones are divided into Green, amber and Red zone with diffrent rules for each zone.
Despite enactment of 2014, street vendors Act, Ahmedabad Municipal corporation removed and displaced large no of vendors not complying with the act.
Though, there are some non-profit advocacy organisations like SEWA which have constantly worked for street vendor's cause.


